In order to switch between login and sign up, in the auth component, we need to manage the currently active
mode and therefore you could for example add a property, isLoginMode but you can name this whatever
you want. In the end, the idea here is that you store if the user is currently in login or in sign up
mode and you adjust the user interface but also what you do in the form gets submitted dynamically based
on that property.
So initially, that could be true and then I will add a method, on switch mode, which we can call from our
user interface to change that property,
this allows us to dynamically change what's on the user interface upon an event triggered by the user
by using that helper property,
a pattern we used many times throughout the course already.
So in here, we can set isLoginMode to false but that's actually not what I want to do,
instead the idea here is that we change it to the opposite of what it was before
and for that, we can use a handy shortcut,
we can change it to not
this isLoginMode.
Whilst this might look strange at first, this simply reverses the value.
If this previously stored true, then not true will be false and therefore we now store false,
if this stored false, then not false will be true and we now store true,
that's the idea.
Now we just have to connect on switch mode
and this isLogin property in our template.
Now I want to switch the mode when we click that button here at the bottom.
So here upon a click, we can call on switch mode,
that's the idea
because that should be our trigger for switching the mode
but now of course we also need to adjust the user interface based on the mode we are in.
The form inputs we show shouldn't change let's say but the button labels certainly should.
Here for example, we'll not always show sign up but instead we can use string interpolation to show a
dynamic text.
We can check isLoginMode which is the property we just added
and if that is true, we know we are in login mode,
so this button which is there to submit the form, should actually display login as a text
and don't forget the single quotes here to really output text in there because you're in the string
interpolation syntax, hence everything in there is interpreted as Javascript code.
The alternative and this is a ternary expression here with the question mark,
then the code we want to execute if this condition is true and then a colon and then the code we want
to execute if that condition is not true.
So if that is not true, then we are not in logging mode and therefore, I want to output sign up because
if we're not in logging mode, we are in sign up mode. A side note by the way, as I just said, this button
should submit the form,
so we should change it to type submit. The other button here which switches modes should be changed to
type button so that it doesn't submit that form here
because if you don't set a type, clicking that button which is inside of the form will actually submit
it
and therefore if Angular doesn't step in, it will send an unnecessary HTTP request into the void
and even if Angular steps in and prevents this submission, it will trigger the form submission in Angular
nonetheless
and we certainly don't want to do that for this button, only for the first one.
So now we have that first button changed, the second button here,
this text of course also has to change based on the mode we're in because if we are in login mode,
then we can switch to sign up mode.
So in that case that we are in login mode, we want to say switch to sign up,
if we're not in login mode, then we are in sign up mode
and then here, we should say switch to login because that is the mode we can switch to.
If you now save this and have a look,
if I click this button now, indeed correctly our user interface changes.
So this is working and that's our first important step,
the next important step is of course that we handle the form input here.